Lineage Prayer to the Teachers of Sumpa Lotsāwa's Ear-Whispered Mind Training Homage to the teacher and the Three Jewels! Homage to Vajravārāhī, Illusory embodiment of unsullied great bliss. Homage to the noble lady Tārā, Epitome of the enlightened activities of the victors. Homage to Sumpa Lotsāwa, Who achieved both learning and accomplishment. Homage to Sakya Paṇchen, Lord of the doctrine and savant of the five sciences. Homage to Chögyal Pagpa, Holder of boundless precious qualities. I bow to Zhangtön Könchok Pal, Pure practitioner of the sublime doctrine. I bow to Chöje Dragpugpa, Who after striving in practice found accomplishment. Homage to Sönam Gyaltsen, Unequaled lord of the doctrine. The Supplement I bow to Togme Zangpo Pal, Son of the Victor, Avalokiteśvara in person. Homage to Jangchub Tsemo, Kabzhipa, and Palden Zangpo. I bow at the feet of Neten Sampen, Yönten Pal, and Kunga Chogdrub. Homage to Jamyang Drölchok, Lhawang Drak, and Kunga Nyingpo. I bow at the feet of Trinle Wangmo, who bears the name Rinchen, And at the feet of Nyingpo Taye. Homage to Vidyādhara Kunzang Wangpo, And to Tsewang Norbu. I bow at the feet of Ngawang Namgyal, Chöjor Pal, and Lobzang Tutob. Homage to the mahāsattva Nyima Chöpel, And to Losal Tenkyong. I bow at the feet of the spiritual masters Who have passed on the kind gift of this path. May I and all migrating beings, as infinite as the sky, By dint of this supplication prayer, Be taken under the wing of an authentic master Throughout all our future lives. May we in this very life attain a mind at ease, content with whatever happens, And the ability to utilize our mind, Resulting in mind and Dharma being fused- The great immortal trust. In short, may all times and occasions, Whether happiness or suffering or gain or loss befall us, Turn into the path of enlightenment By means of the practice of profound mind training. This homage to the lineage masters of Sumpa Lotsāwa's Ear-Whispered Mind Training was put into writing at Ngulchu Chözong by the venerable monk and teacher of the doctrine, Togme, who had been requested to do so by Geshe Śākya Yeshe from Minyak. The supplement and three verses of aspiration were composed by Khyentse Wangpo. May it be virtuous! 
